Diagnosis: Indication : Last colonoscopy 3 years ago, Rectal bleeding 
Diagnosis Codes : 
K62.6, Ulcer of anus and rectum  
K64.8, Other hemorrhoids  
K62.5, Hemorrhage of anus and rectum 
Procedure: Colonoscopy. Before the procedure, time out was performed, the patient 
was identified, and the procedure was verified. After I obtained informed consent, the 
scope was passed under direct vision. Throughout the procedure, the patient's blood 
pressure, pulse, and oxygen saturations were monitored continuously. The 
Colonoscope was introduced through the anus and advanced to the cecum, identified 
by appendiceal orifice and ileocecal valve. The colonoscopy was performed without 
di iculty. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Procedure and risks explained to 
patient which include but not limited to medication reaction, bleeding, perforation, 
aspiration and misssed lesions. Prep was good. Washes and suctioning done as needed 
also so overall good visualization of mucosa. Slow withdrawal on of scope with careful 
inspection of mucosa for abnormalities. Judicious gas insu lation used on way in. Gas 
removal was done as much as possible on way out. . Retroflexion done in the rectum. 
Scope only advanced when lumen identified. The quality of the bowel preparation was 
evaluated using the BBPS (Boston Bowel Preparation Scale) with scores of: Right Colon 
= 3 (entire mucosa seen well with no residual staining, small fragments of stool or 
opaque liquid), Transverse Colon = 3 (entire mucosa seen well with no residual staining, 
small fragments of stool or opaque liquid) and Left Colon = 3 (entire mucosa seen well 
with no residual staining, small fragments of stool or opaque liquid). The total BBPS 
score equals 9. 
Findings : - A single localized erosion (proctitis) was found in the distal rectum at the anal verge .. 
Biopsies  
were taken with a cold forceps for histology. Estimated blood loss was minimal.  - Internal hemorrhoids were found during retroflexion. The hemorrhoids were moderate.  - The exam was otherwise without abnormality on direct and retroflexion views. 
Impression : - A single erosion in the distal rectum. Biopsied.  - Internal hemorrhoids.  - The examination was otherwise normal on direct and retroflexion views. 
Procedure Codes : 
45380, Colonoscopy, flexible; with biopsy, single or multiple 
